# Bechlor-s_thesis

【Abstract】
Typically, the breast cancer is the most universal malignancy in women around the world and its incidence rate is highest as well among all female malignancy. In recent decades, this rate within Chinese women is increasing by 3.5% each year which is the fastest one worldwide. 
The thesis is concentrated on making a prior prediction of the relapse in breast cancer and attending to build up a predicting survival model for risk. At the first, based on the Pathifier Algorithm, it is convenient to transform the high-dimensional gene symbol dataset gathered from the developing Engineering of Gene Chip into a lower-dimensional dataset as the Pathway Deregulation Score, which strengthens the signal of genes. Secondly, using the SOM Clustering Algorithm to divide those pathways into 24 groups and calculating the mean for each group and combining the calculating output with clinical data as an experiment dataset used to train the model, then test the effectiveness of model in gene group level. Thirdly, finding out the most relative variable in gene group level and returning it into pathway level, then making up the experiment dataset used to train the model and test the effectiveness of model in gene group level again. To test the effectiveness of model, using the Prognosis Index Score calculated from the predicting model and dividing the testing dataset into two groups, high risk and low risk, after that, it is able to evaluate the effect of the model by the Wilcoxon log rank test.
The thesis collects a dataset from National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus and sets 2/3 of samples as the training set and 1/3 as the testing sample for each dataset. As the result, the evaluation of predicting model is well for each dataset in pathway level. 

